Opening sentance, why do I want to work for this company:

Write down 3 things that excite you about the role.

(a) Analysing large data-sets and cutting edge techniques to obtain real world impact.
(b) Oppurtunity to learn about new fields and many industries
(c) International company, based in Paris.

Why they are exciting.

Something new

(a) Quick to learn new programming knowledge

(b) Work well within a team

(c) How statistics is enjoyable


You are Fluent in English
You have previous experience in problem solving end to end.
Ideally, you have good technical skills SQL, programming languages, ...
You have previous international experience
You are interested in analysis and statistics
You are versatile, dynamic.
You have a real interest in online Advertising market and the impact of a high-performance technology in this market

To the Criteo team,

I am applying for the Data Analysis role at Critea, and I would like to explain why am excitied about this role and
how I believe I have the statistical, technical and communcation skills required to succed with the role.

This role really interests me as it would allow me to take the analytical and technical skills I've learnt from my PhD
and apply them to create impact in a real world problem such as online advertising.
I would relish the challenges and rewards of using cutting-edge statistical and computational techniques on a complex and large data-set to be able
to improve the effectiveness of a companies advertising campaign,
and I would also enjoy the opportunity to obtain a broader knowledge of the advertising market and those of your clients.
Finally, I know from my experience of working at the CERN campus in Geneva,
that the international collaborative of Criteo within the diverese city of Paris would suit me well.

I believe that I have good analytical and statistical skills that would make me well qualified for this job.
My current research involves searching for signs of new physics in the large data-sets taken by the ATLAS experiment;
this entails identifying for approximately 100s of discrepant data-points within a data-set containing of order 10 million events.
This has required use of a machine-learning algorithm to improve identification of events of interest,
regression techniques to model large backgrounds,
and  bayesian hypothesis testing to quantify the results.
I also have an experience and interest in statistical and mathematical analysis beyond the confines of my current research;
my university degree consisted of applying mathematical and statistical problems solving to complex problems,
I have been to statistical courses at UCL and at an international physics summer school hosted by CERN
and I attended a CERN academic tutorial series on Machine Learning,
which consisted of a series of lectures from the experts in the field from CERN and from Google.


`As part of this research, I led the measurement of the performance of the $b$-trigger,
a vital component of the data-aquisition used in our experiment.
I helped identify that the $b$-trigger was performing well below expectations,
understand the reasons for this
and work with experts to mitigate the issue in the effected data.'



To perform the statistical analyses on large data-sets mentioned above I have developed
a range of computing skills that would put me in good stead for a role with Criteo.
I have 3 years experience of using linux, python, C++ and git to perform large-scale collaborative analysis,
in addition to using software and large scale frameworks specific to the field, for example ROOT.
Whilst working on these projects I have shown that I am able to learn new computational skills required;
for a specific example of this when I began working on the new physics search described above,
much of the tools we required were already written in Python, a language that I had zero experience of using.
However, from studying the existing code and online manuals I found that I was quickly able to
understand the language such that I could use and adapt the existing code to perform our analysis.
I believe that this ability to adapt to a new working environment gives me confidence that I would be able to fit in within Criteo.
I am also keen to broaden these skill outside of my current set of skill;
I have taken online tutorials and have some basic usage of SQL and
data-science specific python libraries such as seaborn, pandas and skicit-learn;
the later learnt through attending a tutorial held at CERN by a lead developer of the module.



To be able to analyse these large data-sets within the collaborative environment I have developed a range
of computing tools ranging from expertise in the basic languages,
to the specific computing tools used within our experiments software;
showing that I have the ability to learn new computing skills
allowing me to rapidly adapt to a different projects and working environments.

An equally important facet of my research experience is the ability to effectively collaborate in an international environment
and communicate the results of a statistical analysis to others.
The ATLAS experiment, of which I am a member, is an international collaboration of 3,000 physicists and engineers,
performing complicated analyses on large and often messy data-sets.
For us to effectively carry out this task it is necessary to work together in small groups
with regularly formal and informal communication within and between these groups.
I work well within this environment;
and as a result I was asked to be an analysis contact for the last 6 months,
a role which involves co-ordinating the work of a team of 5 scientists
and representing our work and needs to those outside of the team, including the ATLAS management hierachy.
I have also been invited to give a number of presentations in a large range of situations;
including a number of international and national scientific conferences and workshops, for example a large particle-physics conference in Russia,
regular updates to fellow experts within and from relevant analysis teams
and outreach events explaining current research to schools pupils ranging in age from 11-18.
From this I have learnt that when presenting is is essential to understand the audience that you are presenting to
and to think about what the key messages your audience should take away
such that one is able to effectively communicate the details and outcomes of the hard work.

Thank you for considering my application and I look foward to hearing from you,

Laurie M^{c}Clymont









